## README

The main goal of this project is to analyze different objective attributes of an article that would influence readers' attitudes and opinions to the article. As a data analysis project, we focus specifically on attributes that can be quantified (e.g word count, keywords, release time, etc.) and collected and use a set of models and algorithms in statistics and machine learning to analyze the relationship between these attributes and the popularity of these articles (which, in this project, reflected in the number of shares on social networks like Facebook and Twitter).

The project will be done in three main phases. First, we fetch data from the target website and create proper dataset for next steps. Second, we analyze data by selecting meaningful combination of metrics
and calculating statistics (e.g correlation between attribute and popularity) of the given datasets. Besides analysis of existing data, our project will have a prediction module where we apply machine learning algorithms (linear regression, random forest) to predict the potential popularity of a given article and provide the optimal suggestion of rules that will make the article reach its best popularity. Finally, we will visualize the most significant findings using a set of tools and language

### Background

Facebook has recently been accused for spreading fake news about the 2016 U.S presidential election, which is said to influenced the outcome dramatically. Putting aside the political issues involved, this can be seen as a perfect example of the important role social media plays in information sharing. Facebook and twitter together have about 2 billion active users, roughly a quarter of the world's population. Any piece of information being shared can have a huge impact if it successfully draws these people's attention. Therefore, it is meaningful to discover what kinds of news and articles tend to be more popular among social media. 

While the content of an article is always the decisive factor to determine whether it is popular or not, people often ignore other factors that also influence the popularity of an article. For example, people tend to become impatient when given a relatively long article. Also, a news with pictures, videos and links is more likely to be popular than those which do not have these. These factors can be collected as attributes of articles and be quantified and processed using statistic methods, which generate a great amount of meaningful discoveries, some of which may be quite different than what we used to think.

Our aim is to analyze and determine important attributes of online articles that will affect their popularity on social media. Specifically, the dataset we are working on is a heterogeneous set of features about article articles published on Mashable in a period of two years, then we make meaningful combination of attributes and anaylze the relationship between them and the number of shares on social network. Moreover, we will learn from the existing datasets and use machine learning to predict the popularity of new articles. The whole website therefore will serve as a comprehensive project for literature analysis and can cater to a large market.  

